
Thank you very much Pittsburgh, a great place. You have always treated me well. Thank you, Pittsburgh. Thank you very much. I’m thrilled to be back in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 


Hard working Americans patriots, and by the way, the home of the Pittsburgh Steelers, congratulations. Good team. Great quarterback, don’t you think? I think he’s great. Big Ben, right? Big Ben … We’re going to lift our nation to extraordinary new heights. We’re going to turn the page forever on the failed political class, and that’s exactly what we’ve been doing. We’re going to defend our jobs, our families, our borders, and our treasured way of life. Remember, we now put America first, we do it, been a long time. It’s been a long time.


This is the most important election in the history of our country, I believe that. This election is a matter of economic survival for Pennsylvania. You had the greatest year you’ve ever had last year, and you’re really on your way. We were very, very sadly disturbed by what happened with China. They let the plague out, they shouldn’t have done it, but you’re now on your way. We closed it up, we saved millions of lives. That’s the bottom line. We’d closed it up, we saved millions of lives.


I will tell you, you see what’s happening, you see the numbers as well as I do. You are on your way to, I think maybe, economically the best year, this next year will be the best year we’ve had. The third quarter, wait till you look at the third quarter, look at the numbers. They will be out before the election, but I predict they’ll be very good. By the way, if they’re not, I deny I ever said it. I deny it. But, I’m pretty confident they’re going to be incredible probably the best ever.


Under my administration, we proudly achieved energy independence. Don’t forget, I am not the candidate, two candidates that said we’re not going to have fracking. We’re going to ban fracking. He said that for a year. Then all of a sudden, he said, “Well, maybe we’ll have some fracking.” By the way, that’s not going to last because the radical left won’t let him get away with it. I’m all for fracking. I was in Texas, well, it’s a big part of your economy. It’s energy. It’s just a tremendous part, but I was in Texas two weeks ago and my opponent is against oil, guns, and God.



I just spoke to the governor of Texas, Greg Abbott, a great guy. He said, “I think you’re up 15, sir.” I said, “Well, the fake news says I’m up four.” He said, “You’re not up four.” I won it by a lot less. Remember last time with you, with Texas, with many states, it’s too close to call. We don’t know. Then, boom, the polls close. They say Trump won, Trump won, Trump won. We won a lot.


I won Pennsylvania because of you. I won Pennsylvania and you had your best year. So I mean, that’s the way it’s supposed to work. I think we’re going to win a lot. Don’t forget, last time I came in, I said I was going to give you the tax cuts as regulation cuts. I said we’re going to do big things with energy, big things with steel. Your steel mills, every one of them would have been closed and gone had I not won, but I said I was going to do all these things. So, it’s tougher. Now, I’ve done everything I said and more. I’ve done more. I’ve done more than I said. So, this should be easier. I hear we’re doing really well. I know we’re doing really well based on, you know, we came in with a lot of your great congressman. I said, “How are we doing?” They said, “You’re going to win it by a lot.” But, we better with it. We got to go out. We got to vote.


But powered by the incredible workers of your state. You are now really, if you look at it, the number one producer, think of it. We are as a nation, your state is, you have no idea how big an energy, you know how big you are in energy. People don’t think of Pennsylvania that way. Do you have any idea? As a nation, we’re the biggest in the world by far not even close and we are energy independent. Think of that.


But no longer is America at the mercy of these foreign suppliers and all of the people that took advantage of us for so many years. We now don’t have to be in other parts of the world. We’re there perhaps to help allies. We’re there perhaps to help good people, but we’re not there because we need their energy, because we need their oil. Instead, we’re the dominant energy producer. We’re going to keep it that way. We’re going to always have it that way. This, by the way, our opponents, they don’t want petroleum products. Okay? They want wind. Let’s open up wind. Let’s have some wind and every once in a while, the wind will blow and you’ll produce a couple of things and then you can close down your plant for the rest of the season. You can watch those birds fly out of the sky. Gee. I always say it’s a bird graveyard under the windmills.


Doesn’t have the power. Doesn’t have the staying power. You see what’s happening in California. Blackouts, rolling blackouts. How would you like that in Pennsylvania? The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Darling, what’s wrong? I can’t watch Trump on television. I can’t watch our president. Darling, we have a rolling blackout. It’ll only be a few hours. I think we’ll be on by two o’clock in the morning, darling, and we can watch a rerun. Now, this is what’s happening. You have rolling blackouts. You have, in some cases, just blackouts. I don’t even call them rolling. Not going to happen to your state.


Last year, I visited the Shell petrochemical plant in Beaver County, Pennsylvania, the largest investment in your state’s history. That was all made possible by our pro energy policies. We’ve done it a lot. In Louisiana, we’re building some of the largest plants you’ve ever seen, largest in the world and it’s incredible, all related to energy, but your security and your jobs are in very grave peril, because the radical left maniacs, they don’t want to have anything to do with energy. They don’t want anything to do with, they have different concepts, right? They have the green new deal, whether it will be no energy, almost of any kind. No, it’s crazy. Thought of by AOC plus three. You know AOC?



Not a good student, not good at anything, but she’s got a good line of crap. I’ll tell you. She’s got a hell of a  and she’s got them. She’s radical left, but she’s not as bad as some of them. How about Omar of Minnesota?


We’re going to win the state of Minnesota because of her, they say. He’s telling us how to run our country. How did you do where you came from? How is your country doing? She’s going to tell us, she’s telling us how to run our country. You know what? The Democrats in Congress, you have to see what they are doing. Their stance on Israel, it’s like a whole different world. It’s like from 10 years ago, it’s like a different world and we want to keep our world the way it was and the way it’s going to be. We’ve got the greatest country on earth and we’re going to keep it that way. We don’t need socialist and we don’t need communist telling us how to run our country.




I do this every night and a lot of times it’s a waste. I did it last night. We were … Did you see the crowd we had last night? We were in a great place, Ohio. We had a crowd. We had a crowd. You couldn’t see the end of it. I said, “Turn around camera, turn around.” But, they never liked doing that, you know? They don’t like spinning those cameras. They don’t want to show the crowd.



They don’t like showing. They don’t like showing, show the crowd and this is … it’s an honor. Let me tell you. Look, I used to think that was a difficulty like it was a new camera that can’t turn, but then whenever there was like a problem, like there’d be a little argument or some kind of an anti-Trump person, you don’t see that much. I don’t want to bring it on, but you don’t see it much anymore. You know why? It’s dangerous. It’s dangerous for them, but you know, I’d see the camera would never move, whenever where there’s something like a little negative happening, that thing would turn around like a pretzel. I said, “Oh, it does move.” But, they never want to show the crowds. They never, last night.


Now, I went home and I tell you this, I go home all the time. First lady, “How’d you like the crowd?” Sir, I didn’t see it. I didn’t see it, but I didn’t see it, Donald. I didn’t see it. Sometimes she’ll call me Mr. President, but she’s only kidding. Believe me. She’s only kidding. Has she been a great first lady, right?



She’s been a great first lady and very popular. She’s really done a great job. She works hard. We have some great people here tonight. I brought certain members of my family, but I’m going to introduce them to you in a little bit, okay? Great family. They work hard. I’ll tell you what, they work hard. They really work hard. But I do wish they would show because it would be, you know, it’s actually better for them if they show. It shows the importance. The only thing you can do is show. I’ll say, “How did it look?” I don’t know how it looked, but the sound was phenomenal. Okay? It sounded like a Penn state football game like the Steelers football game. You can’t disguise it. You ever see Sleepy Joe with the little circles? Oh, you can. He puts them very far away, so far away. Then he comes up with the mask. He’s like a hundred yards from the nearest human being. He’s got a … He feels good about the mask. I wonder in the debate it’ll be him and I or the stage. Is he going to walk in with a mask?



I’ll be honest, he feels good about the mask and that’s okay. You know what, whatever makes you feel good. He feels good. He feels, I mean, honestly, what the hell did he spend all that money on the plastic surgery if he’s going to cover it up with a mask. Seriously. The whole  No, I think he’ll come in with a mask. I don’t know. I have no idea. Well, the question is, will he leave it on during the debate? Because it’s a little hard and I’m all for mask when you need them, I’m up, but when you’re making a speech and the nearest person’s like where you are and you’re in a stage all by yourself and then he had a habit of taking it off and it hangs down on his ear as he’s speaking, it makes him feel comfortable.


Honestly, whatever makes you feel good is okay with me, but it’ll be interesting. I’m going to be, we’re going to have a big rating on that. He’s been doing it all his life. He’s been doing it for 47 years and I’ve just started doing this stuff. I’m just starting. But, I’m just thinking, but I did it more in 47 months than he did in 47 years. That’s true. That’s true. You look at what we’ve done.



No, it’s true. That’s actually true. He did a lot of negative stuff too. You have to deduct that out. When asked if there would be any place for fossil fuels, including coal and fracking in a Biden administration, Joe replied, “No, we would make sure that it’s all eliminated.” All of a sudden, he gets the nomination. He’s been trying to get the nomination for decades. He finally get, and that was prime time for him, which was never great. He never got more than 1%. We called it. Remember, I called him his first nickname was 1% Joe.


Frankly, had Elizabeth Warren been loyal to her philosophy, which is radical left, socialism, perhaps communism. I don’t know, perhaps. It’s verging on communism, right? But had she been loyal, she would’ve left. She would have quit. She had no chance. She was out. Pocahontas. She was gone. Remember, I said, ” I have more Indian blood in me than you have and I have none.” I’d love to have some, but I don’t happen to have any. Then she choked and she went out and got a test. She announced she had 1024th, right? 1,000. That means, like I said it last night, that means around 700 or 800 years ago, somewhere, there was a little bit of a relationship going and that’s okay. Seven, 800 years ago, maybe. What a phony she is. It’s terrible. Now, we’re going to pick a great woman, any one of the five that I told you, but any one of the women that we had they’re all great people, great scholars, great, brilliant people. A lot of people.


No, they’re all great women. They’re brilliant. Great scholars. By the way, while I’m here, would anybody prefer that I pick a man? Is there any man that has the courage to raise your hand? There’s one right there. I got one. We found one. No, we’re going to pick an incredible one, brilliant woman and watch the abuse that she will take. Whoever … The decision’s going to be announced on Saturday, 5:00 on Saturday at the White House. You see, we have tremendous Republican support. Two people. Always got to be two. Always got to be the two. Those two. We have great support from the Republican party, tremendous support. It’s never been this unified before ever, ever and the fake impeachment. We had 196 to nothing Republican support. We had 52 and a half to a half in the Senate. Who is the half? I can’t imagine. I can’t. Buddy was very good today. I have to tell you, he was good. Now, I’m happy. Thank you, Mitt. Thank you.


No, he was very good, very positive statement, but days ago, Biden reiterated his pledge to require net zero carbon emissions. That’s basically saying, you know what that is? There’ll be no more oil. There’ll be no more gas. There’ll be no more nothing. There’ll be no more industry. There’ll be no more country. That’s what it’s like really. That would instantly shut down all fracking and all mining immediately in Pennsylvania sending your jobs overseas, sending your money to somebody else, not you. I’ll keep your jobs in Pennsylvania where they belong and you’re going to be doing fracking for a long time.


I can say the same because you are really big in energy. I can say the same thing to you as I say in Texas. So, they don’t want oil. They don’t want fracking, right? They don’t want the energy that we know that powers these massive plants because the other stuff is wonderful. It’s not going to do it. It’s not going to do it. So, they don’t like oil. They don’t like the gas. They don’t like God, religion, churches are close. How about these states? They still have churches closed. By the way, your governor hasn’t been so great. You know that, right?


Are your churches still closed? They’re still closed. They’re doing it for a reason. By the way, November 4th, they’ll announce, “We’ve decided to open up.” Okay? They’re trying to make our numbers as bad as possible. So, California’s closed. Pennsylvania’s closed. North Carolina’s closed. Michigan is closed. That’s another beauty right there, Michigan’s closed. Then they have these fake ballots, millions and millions of ballots. By the way, when not if, when you see shenanigans, please report it to your authorities. Okay?


The real authorities, they’re watching and the authorities are watching, but please report it. But when you look at it, really, it’s amazing. They’re trying to make our numbers look bad, but even with numerous closed states and you notice also law and order, right? Law and order, the red states, the Republican states, they’re working great. Record low crime, record low, but Democrat run states, you look at Chicago, you look at New York, New York has gone through a … We have to bring back. We should draft Rudy Giuliani. Okay? Let’s bring him back. Draft Rudy.


We want Rudy. Rudy, Rudy. I’ll tell you Rudy is amazing, but he did a great job. New York was in big trouble. He came in and he just was tough, smart, and it became the safest big city. Now, we have a man where some categories of crime were up 300%. He fired 1,000. He fired a lot of police, I guess, a billion dollars a year worth of police, worth of great police, firemen and women. It’s a terrible thing. I love that place so much and it’s so sad to see what’s happening to New York. We’re going to make a little bit of a play for New York. In theory, the Democrats automatically win New York, but I do phenomenally in most parts. Then one part, it’s automatic, but I can’t imagine that particular part is going to be very happy. So, we’re going to make a play for New York.




With Pennsylvania, I don’t have to make a play. We’ve got Pennsylvania. Just go out of here. We don’t have to make a play. We don’t have to. It’s a great, you know, for years though Pennsylvania was a place that Republicans just didn’t win. For many years, everybody thought they were going to win, every Republican. So yeah, we’re going to win Pennsylvania. They thought they were going to win it and they didn’t. I came along and we won it and we won it quite easily. Quite easy. I think we’re going to do even better now, because remember, number one in the history of your state last year, and that’s because of what we did, we stopped the dumping. We saved your stell. So many different things, but Pennsylvania is the home of American energy. Think of it that way. This has taken place over a very short period of time. Also, the birthplace of a thing called the American constitution. Right? American constitution.


To uphold our constitution as written as opposed to as conceived by some radical left judge, I will soon be announcing that nominee. You’re going to love it. You’re going to be so happy. If you don’t love it, don’t vote for me. Okay? You don’t like it. My opponent refuses to release a list of justices. I was told that a big thing when I was running last time, nobody really knew me. They knew me very well. We had great success at The Apprentice and in business and it was great, but they never knew what kind of a judge I would pick or to be a justice, right? A justice of the Supreme Court. I said, “I mean, what am I going to do? How am I going to solve that problem?” But, I was in politics, never. Don’t forget, when I ran, they said, “No, he’s inexperienced.” I ran against some very talented people. Some of whom are very good friends of mine. Some of whom I don’t like too much. When I don’t like somebody, it last for a long time, but I said, “Well, how do we solve that problem?” I don’t know. They just weren’t believing. The appointment of a-


Just weren’t believing. The appointment of a United States Supreme Court justice was much more important to the voters than I thought. And they’re right, because they will set policy for 50 years and they’ll set policy, whether it’s life, whether it’s second amendment. The second amendment, if I weren’t president, you know the pressure, your second amendment would be obliterated. It would maybe be gone, but at a minimum obliterated, they haven’t touched your second amendment. Not even touched it. Because I’m here to block. I’m a blocking force. I’m like a lineman for the Pittsburgh Steelers. I’m a blocking force.


No, they haven’t touched it. But your second amendment would be under siege. So nobody knew. I never knew. You hear about Supreme Court, you know about Supreme Court, you know about other judges, by the way at the end of the first term, we’ll be close to 300 federal judges, including court of appeals, which I think is a record. I guess it’s a record. It’s a lot. That’s a lot. Nobody’s done that. It’s record. Think of that. 300. That’s a big percentage of the entire judiciary. Think of that. 300. And many, many court of appeals judges, but two great Supreme Court judges or justices. And now we’re going to get a third. Can you imagine our enemies? Three in one term. So many presidents, they just don’t have the chance and it’s so important. But I said to my people, I said, so if they don’t believe me, what I’ll do is I’ll make up a list of 25 judges or people and we’ll tell them, “I will only pick from that list.” They said, “That sounds like an interesting idea.” This was my idea. When you’ve never run for office before you have to have a little bit of imagination.


So I got out a list, I named the people, the people are good, and I said, “And I promise that I will pick someone like the people on this list.” And it didn’t work. It went nowhere because they didn’t trust it. They said, “We want you to pick the people on the list, not somebody like the people on the list.” So I went back the next week, I said, “I will pick somebody that’s on this list.” And they were all great, great judges for the most part, I think almost entirely, but judges and really respected conservative believers in our country, solid, incredible people. And as soon as I did that, things went through the roof. It was amazing how important it was.


By the way, would you stand up with that beautiful jacket? I love this guy. How many times- How many events? He’s been to a couple. That’s really great. Thank you very much. I’ve seen him before. He’s been here a couple of times, like about 90. Thank you, man. That’s really nice. I’m going to get one of those jackets. By the way, the wall. The wall, yeah, 330 miles. 330 miles. 330 miles. And yes, we have a great relationship with Mexico. First they said, “He’ll never be able to build it.” The Democrats were just brutal. I made a terrible mistake, I said it last night, I should have said, “We will not under any circumstances build a wall at our Southern border.” They would have given me all the money in the world. But stupidly, I said, “We will build a wall.” And the Democrats said, “Let’s not give it to him.” But we got it, we won. We won court cases, we won court cases.


I won so much money we could build four walls if we wanted. So then they said, “All right, all right.” They’ve lost. So by the way, we’re up to 330, the exact wall. Their dream choice. I said to the border patrol, I love these people, they’re great, ICE, the border patrol, what they do is incredible. They’re incredible. I said, “Give me your dream wall, as long as we’re building we might as well build a wall that you want. Let’s build it right.” “Sir, we have to have vision. We need steel and concrete.” I said, “How about one or the other?” They said, “No, sir, we need steel and concrete. We need steel. Inside those poles we have rebar and we have concrete and they’re 30 feet tall. We need all sorts of things. We need them to be wired.” I won’t tell you why they’re wired, but they’re wired for a reason. They’re all wired up and they’re incredible.


But you know what? We got the wall. Nobody could have done it. So once we had the wall and it started going up and then we hit a hundred miles, 200 miles, now we’re at 330, and we’re building 10 miles a week and it’ll be finished very soon. And we have the most secure border in terms of drug trafficking, trafficking coming along and we’ve done phenomenally well. Because that’s a lot of the territory that we need. We’re going to go up to probably a little bit over 500 miles, so we’re at 330. But once they saw that I had it, they said, “Yeah, but Mexico’s not paying for it.” But they are paying for it, Mexico’s paying for the wall. They are paying for it. They’re paying at the border. They’re paying for the wall. All those trucks that go back and forth. They’re paying for the wall.


So the Democrats said, “Yeah, but Mexico…”, they always have to find something, right? And do you remember what I used to say that if they fight us, remember people would say, “What happens if they fight you on the wall? What happens if they fight you right to hell on the wall?” I said, “The wall would get 10 feet taller.” Took a little hit on that, we took a little bit of a hit, but that’s okay. The wall is a tall sucker, you don’t want to get up to the top. They look down, they say, “Oh, ye, ye, how do we get down off this?” It’s tall and it’s strong and it’s great. And we appreciate, because Mexico has been working with us very closely. They have right now 27,000 Mexican soldiers on our Southern border making sure that people don’t come into our country. I want to thank the president of Mexico. Very helpful.


So I made this list of potential justices and I’ll tell you, it all changed. Now I’m asking sleepy Joe Biden to give me a list and he doesn’t want to do it. You know why? Because he can only put super radical left judges on, people that would destroy our country, people that would destroy your country. And he knows that he’s not electable… He shouldn’t be electable anyway. This is the worst candidate. You know where he is today? They have a thing called the LID. I don’t even know. Do you know what LID stands for? LID. He put out a LID today early in the morning. LID means he’s not going to be anywhere today. I’m working my ass off, I’m in Ohio, I’m in Texas, I’m in Florida, I’m in Michigan, I’m in Wisconsin.


Man. Thank you. That’s so nice. Well, that is something that one of the fake news reporters back there, they said they’ve never heard of that one. “There was a chant that’s going over the last six or seven rallies saying, ‘We love you.'” That’s never happened to a politician before. Am I a politician? I don’t want to be a politician. I don’t think of myself as a politician. But it really is, I appreciate it. I’ve never heard it. I liked Ronald Reagan, but they never said we love you, or maybe they did. They’re going to try and find out. Then they’ll say, “President Trump lied last night because 40 years ago I remember…” But no, nobody’s ever heard that one before and I appreciate it because it is reciprocal. Thank you very much. Reciprocal. Reciprocal love. It’s reciprocal.


I had such a nice life before I did this. I had such a nice life. Then I had the witch hunt that goes on forever. It goes on. And then we catch them spying on our campaign. How about that? Let’s see what happens though. But we caught them spying, all of that, the whole big deal. And then the guys that were doing the investigation, they have their 31 different phones, they were accidentally wiped clean. 31 different phones, I think it was like 19 different people, and they all did the same exact accident. Which if you knew anything about phones, it’s almost an impossibility to do it once. Let alone 31 different times. So we caught them and that’s called obstruction. We have to remember that’s called obstruction.




